>> Maximiliano Firtman: So, is it ready?
Not yet.
But maybe you'll say, hey,
Max, but it looks pretty good.
Yeah, but let me show you something.
If I go to the homepage, I'm going
to write some JavaScript code now.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: How many of
you are comfortable with JavaScript?
Okay, so if I do a fetch from here,
what I'm doing?
Yeah, so I will try to get any wait for
the results of that fetch.
Then, and I will try to see if
I can convert that into JSON,
just in one line,
you can do that pretty simple like this.
So, I'm going to the network
down in with JavaScript
downloading that URL and
then trying to convert that into JSON.
If I try to do that, so
I try to convert my API, it says,
expected property name or blah,
blah in JSON at position one boop what?
Let me, instead of executing JSON,
executing text, so
I can see the text, mean the text is
there, okay, it seems pretty good.
Well, maybe I'm using single quotes.
Is that JSON compatible?
What do you think?
Look here, double quotes.
So maybe that's a problem.
Okay, let's see.
Where is that here?
Can I use double quotes?
No, well, maybe I use single
quotes on the outside and
double quotes in the inside,
like in JavaScript.
What do you think?
Yeah, sure.
You bet.
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: No, why not?
It won't let you interpolate.
It won't interpolate.
So if I'm using single quotes on
the outside, in the whole string,
then this interpolation is not gonna work.
Well, I can, escapism.
Yeah, I can do that, but yeah.
No, but yeah, we can escape.
So then let's go back to, that will quote,
and let's try to escape that.
And we escape that with backslash.
So okay, or if not,
I can use the other version of the string.
Remember that one that was the triple,
triple less code.
And then, I mean, that's another option.
And then I don't need to escape.
>> Speaker 2: Double quote.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Double quote,
yeah, thank you.
Okay, so actually these two
characters is one double quote and
these two characters
are another double quote.
So let's see, let's refresh.
So let's refresh I'm getting
the double quote here, which is fine.
Let's try back here,
I'm getting double quote.
So let's try the JSON version and
yeah, it's working.
That means that I can get the value and
put it somewhere else.
Is it perfect my API?
Not really.
I think there one is
step that is mandatory.
I mean, it works here because yeah,
it works.
But by default php servers,
typically when it's a .php,
they think that you are exporting HTML.
So the content type that we are sending to
the browser might not be the right one.
So when you go here to the network,
here I can see my requests and
my responses.
So you said that the content
type says HTML, so
the API says HTML,
which yeah, is not the HTML.
I mean, we are forcing that into JSON and
it works.
But a lot of apps will say no,
this is wrong.
The content type doesn't match JSON,
it doesnt make sense.
And why is that?
Because every PHP field by default is
exporting HTML unless you change that.
Does it make sense?
So for that,
what you need to do if you call?
So we're going to export
a JSON to the client.
We're going to change a header.
And for that, we use a header and you pass
a string, the string will look like this,
content -type:,
you're writing the HTTP header manually.
Application/json.
That's the MIME type of JSON.
So again, it will work anyway, but
the difference is that if I try again and
I'm going to the network, now we
should see in their response headers,
application/json, which is the right one?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay, makes sense?
And I said that there
are two missing pieces.
The other missing piece is not
really a missed piece, but
it's course, not sure how many
of you are aware of cost issues.
I mean, if you want, it depends on
the case, if you're creating an API and
you want others to consume your APIs,
you need to say so.
Because if not, if you try, for example
from this website, frontendmasters.com,
I'm going to the console and
you try to bring this and get the error.
Because, yeah, it's not the same
nourishing, localhostt and
frontend masters to different websites,
okay?
So to solve that,
you can add some more headers.
This has nothing to do with PHP,
has to do with HTTP, okay?
So we have to add the course headers.
I mean, you can just Google for that.
It's actually one that is pretty simple.
So here it's explained all the course
problem, blah, blah, blah.
It's giving you an example
of why this is not working.
Give me the header.
It's this one.
So I just need to also add another header
that is Access-Control-Allow-Origin,
and I can put one origin such as
frontendmasters.com or just star,
which means anyone, I don't care.
If anyone is requesting for this data,
go ahead, give the data, I don't care.
So the browser will allow the access
to this API anywhere, but
just check if your API needs scores or
not.
Sometimes for
security reason is not really
100% secure because through
a proxy you can bypass that.
But anyway, you can allow or
not this course.
This is how you create an API.
Let me remove the if so
we can see that it's pretty simple.
So now we have created an endpoint
called API dot PHP, that's an endpoint,
but instead of creating HTML,
it's creating JSON.
It's responding with JSON.
Also you can change in the header.
You can respond with a jpeg,
of course if I try this,
the browser will expect a jpeg and
will give me a broken image.
Because yeah, I'm not sending the bytes
of an image, but you can see that,
but just changing that,
php can actually return any type of file.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Does
it make sense?
Yeah, one more thing before
moving to the next chapter.
And is be very careful with the header.
So when you call header,
you should call the header
before anything else.
Let me try this.
If I run this, well, it works but
I cannot see the header.
Actually, if you have
already sent some strings
to the client, you cannot send a header.
Actually, PHP works in two ways.
I don't wanna get too advanced here today.
It can be buffered or unbuffered.
But actually, when you're sending bytes or
characters to the client, the body
of the response has already started,
and the head is here, so head body.
So you cannot send the header
after you send body.
So that's why the header should
be at the top of your output.
And that also means,
be very careful with this.
What is this?
Two lines that I have here, two new lines,
because if you don't start your
file with a php opening tag,
you are sending characters to the output.
New lines or spaces.
So if you have already sent those spaces,
you cannot change the header.
Does it make sense?
So now, have in mind because
it happened to me many times.
When I was trying to change the header and
it wasn't working, why is that or
having a space there at the top of
the file, for some reason, okay?
And that's all.
Okay, so now,
we have seen how to send messages or
data between pages, from one page
to the other page through POST or
GET using the super global variables.
[COUGH] And also we have another entry
point called api.php that is using
the same object crypto converter,
the same object to render JSON.